---
layout: post
title: "archlinux and perl, take two"
---

h2. {{ page.title }}

p(publish_date). 05 February 2011

<p>
Today I had <a href=" http://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=39032"> another user</a> reporting issues where my packages wouldn't install the executables somewhere in the users $PATH.
I've <a href="http://japh.se/all/os/2010/10/04/archlinux-and-perl-5.12/">written</a> about this issue before, and I've also <a href="https://bugs.archlinux.org/task/22197">created a ticket</a> on the bug tracker,  along with a possible solution.
</p>

I haven't heard anything from the guys responsible yet, but things have changed, yet again.
This is how the <strong>/etc/profile.d/perlbin.sh</strong> script looks now:

{%highlight bash%}

# Set path to perl scriptdirs if they exist
# https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Perl_Policy#Binaries_and_Scripts
# Added /usr/bin/*_perl dirs for scripts
# Remove /usr/lib/perl5/*_perl/bin in next release

[ -d /usr/bin/site_perl ] &&
    PATH=$PATH:/usr/bin/site_perl
[ -d /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/bin ] &&
    PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/bin

[ -d /usr/bin/vendor_perl ] &&
    PATH=$PATH:/usr/bin/vendor_perl
[ -d /usr/lib/perl5/vendor_perl/bin ] &&
    PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/perl5/vendor_perl/bin

[ -d /usr/bin/core_perl ] &&
    PATH=$PATH:/usr/bin/core_perl

export PATH

# If you have modules in non-standard directories you can add them here.
#export PERLLIB=dir1:dir2

{%endhighlight%}

So to make things clear; the paths went from (the working) <i>/usr/bin/perlbin</i> to <i>/usr/lib/perl5/vendor_perl/bin</i> and back to <i>/usr/bin/perlbin</i>. Keep in mind that this script still fails for a lot of people <strong>since the directories DOES NOT EXIST</strong>.
The conversation that led up to this can be read <a href="https://bugs.archlinux.org/task/13808">in this bug report</a>.

</p>

<p>
A 'solution', as pointed out in the bug report for the <strong>pickyfont</strong> package, would be to create a symlink from /usr/bin/vendor_perl/pickyfont to /usr/bin/pickyfont. But this is not a solution. A solution would be to replace this shitty non-working script with my patched version that I provided in the bug report.

Having to provide support for issues that I can't do something about is frustrating. That's why I wrote that other post. I'm so fed up with packaging stuff for Archlinux, I'll most likely stop and direct users to <a href="http://github.com/trapd00r">the git repository</a> or <a href="http://search.cpan.org/~woldrich/">the CPAN</a>.
</p>

<p>
The PKGBUILD system sure is nice and easy and fluffy and all that, but it's even easier writing a simple Makefile and uploading the stuff to CPAN.
</p>

But then again, if you use Archlinux, the executebles wont be found in your PATH...
